Parents need to do everything possible to make sure their children are healthy and protected from preventable diseases. Children should receive the vaccinations they need at the right age during scheduled or drop-in clinic visits. Outbreaks of preventable diseases occur when many parents decide not to vaccinate their children. If children are not vaccinated, they can spread disease to other children who are too young to be vaccinated or to people with weakened immune systems. Because of advances in medical science, child can be protected against more diseases than ever before. The disease prevention benefits of getting vaccines are much greater than the possible side effects for almost children. Functions. Child E-Vaccination system is an android application for tracking baby’s vaccination. This android application works by taking the information about the child like date of birth, gender, city. It sends the notifications to the users to remind their baby’s vaccination due at their fingertips. Reminder systems have been in use for several decades, except for the more sophisticated computerized phone reminder systems, and are not complex either to initiate or to operate. 
Reminder systems can work through a variety of mechanisms meant to prompt the patient, including phone calls (by clinic staff, computer, through patient portals, or through centralized programs), letters, postcards, and e-mail. While all types of reminder systems are effective, telephone reminders have been found to be most effective, but also the most expensive compared to postcard and letter reminders. Short message service (SMS) is an important and useful service included in mobile phones. It is offered in all types of mobile phones as it is easy to use and can operate with minimal cost. SMS permits users to communicate non-verbally, saying themselves through coalitions of alphanumerical symbols with a largest of 160 characters per single SMS message. SMS has entered global links because SMS is an inexpensive, fast and efficient means of connection between people of any distance.
